Oh finally
after 12 hours the scripts written I can
take some rest now Wow
why is everything so blurry my eyes have
definitely been under too much strain
I'd better go to bed now if only I could
see where it is okay morning my visions
back to normal so let's go research what
that was all about yesterday it seems
the main issue is the so-called blue
light a portion of the light emitted the
most by digital screens of our computers
and smartphones blue light is one of the
three basic parts of the visible white
light coming from the Sun the other two
are green and red you've probably seen
that letter combination RGB and also lol
open any image editor and find color
correction there will be three sliders
standing for red green and blue if you
run them all the way up your image will
become white exactly because this color
is made up of the full spectrum if you
lower them to zero instead everything
will go black so blue light is at the
lower part of the visible spectrum and
it has the highest energy of all that's
why it was chosen for screens it hits
your eyes the most and is visible even
in glaring sunlight now you know what
happens when you look straight to the
Sun right hmm screens only emit a small
part of that radiance but they can still
be harmful for your eyes in the long run
the cornea and lens of your eyes which
are in the front effectively block the
ultraviolet or UV rays from the Sun so
very few of them actually reach the
sensitive back part the retina blue
light on the other hand is not blocked
at all and goes all the way through the
eye if it affects your eyes for too long
it can potentially damage the retinal
cells and lead to eye problems the
reason why your eyes get tired of too
much screen time though is in the short
wavelength and high intensity of the
blue light you see the sky is blue on a
clear day because it's the color that
scatters most easily of all the same
happens
you're staring at your smartphone or
computer screen the light scatters in
all directions making it hard for you to
focus and your eyes strain to see a
clearer picture imagine sitting all day
long with your arms held straight in
front of you you can probably stay like
this for a half an hour or even more but
then your arms will feel like they're
made of rock same with your eyes because
they're also operated by muscles finally
blue light can mess with your sleep if
you use your devices during the day it
helps you stay awake and better
concentrate but at night it blocks
production of the sleep hormone
melatonin and you toss and turn in bed
waking up tired
that's why blue light filters have
become so popular in the recent years
the idea is to reduce the intensity of
blue light by adding a yellow tint to
the image all the newer smartphones have
this feature built into them but it's
turned off by default on Android devices
it's usually found in the quick panel
swipe down from the top of the screen
and you'll see a number of options
different brands call it differently
blue light filter eye saver mode eye
safety etc but the essence is the same
just tap the icon and your screen will
get a warmer hue if you have an iPhone
with iOS version 9.3 or newer you can
set the night shift mode to turn on at a
select time every day go to settings
display in brightness and select night
shift
here you can turn this mode on and off
manually schedule the time frame at
which it works automatically and even
control the warmth of the light if you
don't care about the quality of image
that much shift the slider all the way
to the right for maximum effect if your
phone doesn't support the blue light
blocking feature you can always go to
the App Store or Google Play and search
for a relevant app there's a whole bunch
of them so pick one you like the most on
a desktop PC you have two options to
choose from a hardware and a software
one the hardware option involves going
to the settings of your monitor most
manufacturers provide the eye saver mode
in their products if you can't find it
yourself check out your monitors
instruction manual if there's no
built-in blue light filter in your
monitor or you just don't like it then
choose the software option first of all
Windows 10 has a feature called
nightlight go to the Start menu and
click the gear icon then select system
there the display screen will pop up and
if you scroll down a bit you'll see the
nightlight setting you can either
schedule it for a certain time every day
or turn it on immediately the nice thing
about it is that you can regulate the
warmth of the tone click nightlight
settings under the switch and shift the
slider left or right until you like the
result
painting your screen dusty red no
problem on a Mac computer the soft
option is called the same as on iPhones
night shift if you have a ciara version
click the Apple logo in the top left
corner and then System Preferences in
the pop-up window select displays and
you'll see three tabs you need the right
one aptly named night shift in this menu
you can schedule the blue light blocking
feature to turn on automatically or
switch it on manually as well as
regulate the tone temperature with a
slider just like on Windows and if
you're not content with the built-in
opportunities download an app in the App
Store or Windows Store that will suit
your needs again there's a lot to choose
from another option is to wear yellow
tinted glasses to protect your eyes
they're sold in specialized stores and
online and efficiently block the blue
light from your screen anti reflective
lenses will be an added bonus since they
shield your eyes from reflections on
both sides a filter screen applied to
your phone can help block the blue light
as well it looks like your regular
protective screen cover so it has a dual
purpose shielding your device's screen
from damage and your eyes from the
harmful effects of the blue light
perhaps the simplest way to avoid blue
light is to hold your smartphone at an
angle tilt it back until you feel your
eyes less strain from exposure but can
still comfortably use your gadget it
takes practice but pays off well in the
end finally give your
some rats for every 45 minutes of
looking at the screen give yourself
about 15 minutes of rest and look away
go make some tea or coffee or I've
talked to someone or read a book
whoa by the way it doesn't matter if you
choose a physical copy or an electronic
one on your ebook because those have a
special screen made with e-ink a
substance that lets you read without
straining your eyes do some I gymnastics
to lift the stress from your eyes close
your eyes and roll your eyeballs under
the lids first clockwise and then
counterclockwise open your eyes again
and forcefully blink several times sit
in front of a window concentrate on
something far away and hold your eyes on
it for 10 seconds then shift the focus
to something close by your thumb will do
make sure it's lined up with a faraway
object so you don't have to move your
head repeat this three times and then
close your eyes again staying like that
for half a minute you'll feel much
better after this and will be able to
return to work for another hour